## OASIS PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface v3.0

### OASIS PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface License
<pre>

Copyright Â© OASIS Open 2020. All Rights Reserved.

    All capitalized terms in the following text have the meanings
assigned to them in the OASIS Intellectual Property Rights Policy (the
"OASIS IPR Policy"). The full Policy may be found at the OASIS website:
[http://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/ipr]

    This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published, and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this section are included
on all such copies and derivative works. However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, including by removing the copyright
notice or references to OASIS, except as needed for the purpose of
developing any document or deliverable produced by an OASIS Technical
Committee (in which case the rules applicable to copyrights, as set
forth in the OASIS IPR Policy, must be followed) or as required to
translate it into languages other than English.

    The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by OASIS or its successors or assigns.

    This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
"AS IS" basis and OASIS DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY OWNERSHIP RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. OASIS
AND ITS MEMBERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR ANY
PART THEREOF.

    [OASIS requests that any OASIS Party or any other party that
believes it has patent claims that would necessarily be infringed by
implementations of this OASIS Standards Final Deliverable, to notify
OASIS TC Administrator and provide an indication of its willingness to
grant patent licenses to such patent claims in a manner consistent with
the IPR Mode of the OASIS Technical Committee that produced this
deliverable.]

    [OASIS invites any party to contact the OASIS TC Administrator if it
is aware of a claim of ownership of any patent claims that would
necessarily be infringed by implementations of this OASIS Standards
Final Deliverable by a patent holder that is not willing to provide a
license to such patent claims in a manner consistent with the IPR Mode
of the OASIS Technical Committee that produced this OASIS Standards
Final Deliverable. OASIS may include such claims on its website, but
disclaims any obligation to do so.]

    [OASIS takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this OASIS
Standards Final Deliverable or the extent to which any license under
such rights might or might not be available; neither does it represent
that it has made any effort to identify any such rights. Information on
OASIS' procedures with respect to rights in any document or deliverable
produced by an OASIS Technical Committee can be found on the OASIS
website. Copies of claims of rights made available for publication and
any assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of
such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this OASIS Standards
Final Deliverable, can be obtained from the OASIS TC Administrator.
OASIS makes no representation that any information or list of
intellectual property rights will at any time be complete, or that any
claims in such list are, in fact, Essential Claims.]

</pre>
