-webkit-appearance: auto
accent-color: auto
align-content: normal
align-items: normal
align-self: auto
animation-delay: 0s
animation-direction: normal
animation-duration: auto
animation-fill-mode: none
animation-iteration-count: 1
animation-name: none
animation-play-state: running
animation-timing-function: ease
appearance: auto
aspect-ratio: auto
backdrop-filter: none
background-attachment: scroll
background-clip: border-box
background-color: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0)
background-image: none
background-origin: padding-box
background-position-x: left 0%
background-position-y: top 0%
background-repeat: repeat repeat
background-size: auto auto
border-bottom-color: rgb(0, 0, 0)
border-bottom-left-radius: 0px
border-bottom-right-radius: 0px
border-bottom-style: none
border-bottom-width: medium
border-collapse: separate
border-left-color: rgb(0, 0, 0)
border-left-style: none
border-left-width: medium
border-right-color: rgb(0, 0, 0)
border-right-style: none
border-right-width: medium
border-spacing: 0px
border-top-color: rgb(0, 0, 0)
border-top-left-radius: 0px
border-top-right-radius: 0px
border-top-style: none
border-top-width: medium
bottom: auto
box-shadow: none
box-sizing: content-box
caption-side: top
clear: none
clip: auto
clip-path: none
clip-rule: nonzero
color: rgb(0, 0, 0)
column-count: auto
column-gap: auto
content: normal
cursor: auto
cx: 0px
cy: 0px
direction: ltr
display: block
fill: rgb(0, 0, 0)
fill-opacity: 1
fill-rule: nonzero
flex-basis: auto
flex-direction: row
flex-grow: 0
flex-shrink: 1
flex-wrap: nowrap
float: none
font-family: serif
font-size: 16px
font-stretch: normal
font-style: normal
font-variant: normal
font-weight: 400
grid-auto-columns: auto
grid-auto-flow: row
grid-auto-rows: auto
grid-column-end: auto
grid-column-gap: auto
grid-column-start: auto
grid-row-end: auto
grid-row-gap: auto
grid-row-start: auto
grid-template-areas: 
grid-template-columns: 
grid-template-rows: 
height: 1479px
image-rendering: auto
inline-size: auto
inset-block-end: auto
inset-block-start: auto
inset-inline-end: auto
inset-inline-start: auto
justify-content: normal
justify-items: legacy
justify-self: auto
left: auto
letter-spacing: normal
line-height: normal
list-style-image: none
list-style-position: outside
list-style-type: disc
margin-block-end: 8px
margin-block-start: 8px
margin-bottom: 8px
margin-inline-end: 8px
margin-inline-start: 8px
margin-left: 8px
margin-right: 8px
margin-top: 8px
mask: none
mask-type: luminance
math-depth: 0
math-shift: normal
math-style: normal
max-height: none
max-inline-size: none
max-width: none
min-height: auto
min-inline-size: 0px
min-width: auto
object-fit: fill
object-position: left 50% top 50%
opacity: 1
order: 0
outline-color: rgb(0, 0, 0)
outline-offset: 0px
outline-style: none
outline-width: medium
overflow-x: visible
overflow-y: visible
padding-block-end: 0px
padding-block-start: 0px
padding-bottom: 0px
padding-inline-end: 0px
padding-inline-start: 0px
padding-left: 0px
padding-right: 0px
padding-top: 0px
pointer-events: auto
position: static
quotes: auto
r: 0px
right: auto
row-gap: auto
rx: auto
ry: auto
scrollbar-width: auto
stop-color: rgb(0, 0, 0)
stop-opacity: 1
stroke: none
stroke-opacity: 1
stroke-width: 1px
table-layout: auto
text-align: left
text-anchor: start
text-decoration-color: rgb(0, 0, 0)
text-decoration-line: none
text-decoration-style: solid
text-decoration-thickness: auto
text-indent: 0px
text-justify: auto
text-shadow: none
text-transform: none
top: auto
transform: none
transform-box: view-box
transform-origin: 50% 50%
transition-delay: 0s
transition-duration: 0s
transition-property: all
transition-timing-function: ease
user-select: auto
vertical-align: baseline
visibility: visible
white-space: normal
width: 784px
word-spacing: normal
word-wrap: normal
x: 0px
y: 0px
z-index: auto
