## DOM Level 3 Core Specification v1.0

### W3C License
<pre>

W3C SOFTWARE NOTICE AND LICENSE

http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-software-20021231

This work (and included software, documentation such as READMEs, or other
related items) is being provided by the copyright holders under the following
license. By obtaining, using and/or copying this work, you (the licensee)
agree that you have read, understood, and will comply with the following terms
and conditions.

Permission to copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation, with or without modification, for any purpose and without fee
or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL
copies of the software and documentation or portions thereof, including
modifications:

   1.The full text of this NOTICE in a location viewable to users of the
   redistributed or derivative work.

   2.Any pre-existing intellectual property disclaimers, notices, or terms and
   conditions. If none exist, the W3C Software Short Notice should be included
   (hypertext is preferred, text is permitted) within the body of any
   redistributed or derivative code.

   3.Notice of any changes or modifications to the files, including the date
   changes were made. (We recommend you provide URIs to the location from
   which the code is derived.)

THIS SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS
MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR
PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY
THIRD PARTY PATENTS,COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.

COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR
DOCUMENTATION.  The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used
in advertising or publicity pertaining to the software without specific,
written prior permission. Title to copyright in this software and any
associated documentation will at all times remain with copyright holders.

____________________________________

This formulation of W3C's notice and license became active on December 31
2002. This version removes the copyright ownership notice such that this
license can be used with materials other than those owned by the W3C, reflects
that ERCIM is now a host of the W3C, includes references to this specific
dated version of the license, and removes the ambiguous grant of "use".
Otherwise, this version is the same as the previous version and is written so
as to preserve the Free Software Foundation's assessment of GPL compatibility
and OSI's certification under the Open Source Definition. Please see our
Copyright FAQ for common questions about using materials from our site,
including specific terms and conditions for packages like libwww, Amaya, and
Jigsaw. Other questions about this notice can be directed to
site-policy@w3.org.

</pre>
